the stock market the economy and
everything in between hinges on one
thing and that is the inflation rate of
course we are seeing interest rates
where they are as the Federal Reserve is
trying to get inflation in check to
their two percent goal but there's one
part they haven't told you about one
part that everybody seems to ignore
that's what we're going to get into
today I will show you that data and
everything surrounding the economy how
does that sound let's begin here we have
it first news is that the tech sector
which has led the way with more than 200
000 job Cuts since the tracking began in
October there's actually less today
because the belief is that they have
stopped cutting due to the fact that
they have Unwound most of this you know
they're over hiring they went in head
first started hiring more people Amazon
being one they hired over a million
people over a million people so of
course now they're cutting about sixty
thousand what I can tell you as an
Amazon Seller I sell a lot of products
and right now things are very slow let
me tell you very slow so I don't know if
that is related but no I just want to
know you know that uh somebody at Amazon
please you got to fix your stuff because
this is making the game much harder now
what we're seeing is not unique to
Amazon it goes on and I want to show you
this here we have it Microsoft Cuts 276
Seattle area jobs finance lays off over
a thousand employees you see this
repeated over and over again okay many
different companies are cutting jobs
it's not just in Tech it is all over the
place then we have this showing us a
company called Leslie's you may not know
of them but they are dealing with pools
now pools are something that is
considered to be discretionary you don't
need a pool but when you have some
excess cash just like in the movie
Christmas Vacation they want to put that
in because oh he gets his bonus now he
can install the pool but what happens
when you get laid off what happens when
you get your hours reduced what happens
when the cost of that pool is maybe you
know 30 percent more than before maybe
it's double who knows with all the labor
and the parts and everything well
suddenly people start saying ah maybe
not this year maybe next year and so
they push that off or even just
uncertainty in general so that presents
itself with an issue right now this
company has said specifically this is
the biggest in all of the U.S they said
that well we're heard and bad as a
result of the Slowdown so that's a
little bit of anecdotal evidence and
that's what it's all about you have to
search and read between the lines in
order to understand what's happening in
the economy you're not going to get it
from one stat but if we want to look at
the stats that they show us which is the
critical aspect of this video well then
how about this I'll show you right now
June CPI print was likely the last for
favorable year-over-year effect you got
to remember this when we're talking
about inflation it is a year-over-year
statistic so of course on the way up it
looks extreme because inflation was in
the negative inflation was down and then
year over year you start adding that up
but at a certain point it starts going
the other direction right and now we are
at that pivotal moment where inflation
Peaks out and then we come around the
other end now nobody knows of course
where that could be in in the coming
months but there are some things that
are very sticky as they like to call
them and those are the predictions you
could see you know where are we going to
be at nobody really knows
but
we got to do this month over month so
the the thought here is that on a month
over month basis we could start seeing
some increases
we don't know but what are some of the
components that right now are still
going up it depends on where you look at
it but food is still an issue energy is
still elevated compared to where we were
let's say pre-2020 so natural gas for
instance down from the peak but still
elevated we have in many areas I've
heard from you gasoline still too pricey
other things could be seasonal of course
but you got to understand the other
factors when we talk about inflation in
the workforce so all the labor costs are
certainly higher than they were there's
no question about that some people are
getting screwed over okay let's admit
that but for many businesses they just
cannot afford it they can't afford it so
they are working with less people they
are laying people off they're reducing
their hours people are still working but
in many cases they're working two jobs
how many people do you know you know not
just the people in the mentorship all of
the people that I have in the mentorship
group are looking at for the most part
are looking at getting a secondary
income getting some passive income for
different reasons but let's be honest we
need more income no matter how much we
have it's always good to have more so if
we have free time if we have some
available time instead of scrolling
through Instagram why don't we use that
to bring in some income certainly but a
lot of people need it there's a
difference between wanting it and
needing it and now the growing number
look when the average person average
person making thirty four thousand
dollars a year in the US median salary
you've got a problem okay you've got an
issue imagine the household income is
super low and we need to get that up we
need to do what we can so people are
taking on second jobs but it doesn't fix
the initial problem the core issue is
that things cost too much simply because
of all the devaluation of the currency
if we're not going to admit that we're
never going to know worst American city
for pensions confronts a 35 billion
dollar crisis Brandon Johnson sets out
to find a sustainable pension funding
mayor is against hiking property taxes
of course that's right don't hike the
property taxes even though they will you
could see it Chicago Chicago
now Illinois I've covered many times
before Kentucky I believe is in a
terrible situation these areas are not
going to do well their pension shortfall
continues to get worse and if you're
relying on that you're going to get hurt
at some point are they going to bail it
out they say maybe they will hey they
build up a lot of student loans why not
the pensions pensions actually in 2020
got a little a little juice but it's
unsustainable and when that gets a
bailout you're paying for that you
understand it you are paying for that
maybe not directly maybe you're still
gonna get it but you paid from that
corner filled in that I mean it doesn't
it doesn't matter come on so what do you
got to do well there are definitely some
suggestions you've got to of course
increase your income increase your
self-sufficiency that's really important
I talk about that in the Discord as well
I talked about that in my books I mean
I've got playlists there's so much but I
want you to know about these things
helocs that's home equity uh line of
credits you can see game popularity as
mortgage rates rise last year saw the
most HELOC origination since 2008. all
right not where we were but the simple
matter of fact is as the mortgage rates
have gone up people are looking for more
attractive ways to get some debt they
say hey I got all this Equity tied up in
my home I'll just use that and that's
not a good sign of course I don't
believe that is a good sign it shows you
that people are cash strapped
a global subsidy War keeping up with the
Americans Washington's allies in Europe
and Asia were initially outraged by its
new industrial policy now they are
scrambling for ways to catch up
of course we got subsidies going on in
one of the key ones is uh with the
semiconductors so they had this chips
act and they want to build
semiconductors for national security
purposes this creates opportunities
whenever you see the you know new law
going in somebody's going to win there
are opportunities I'm considering
starting a newsletter in that newsletter
there will be information like this so
like a new law gets passed you're going
to get an email and it's going to say
these are the potential winners as a
result of that if you're interested
that is something I'm thinking of I I'm
not doing that now but if that's
something that you are interested in let
me know okay it's not going to be like I
have the email list before where I would
send the video of the day this is going
to be totally separate you're going to
have economic data you're going to have
like opportunity data
um and and potentially a lot of other
stuff let me know I'm interested to know
um but basically What's Happening Here
is of course you're going to see this
competitiveness start to uh appear
around the world there are opportunities
some people are though some countries
some areas some businesses they're going
to lose out so we've got to pay
attention to that and uh the people who
are going to lose of course I think are
going to be the ones that I've been
losing all along
UK GDP mortgage payers worst fears are
likely to come true same situation the
UK as with Canada as with other places
cycle of interest rate Rises are
expected to continue after better than
forecast economic data so this is coming
through with saying hey labor Market's
strong as a result we can continue our
policy that's the key if you look at it
with the Federal Reserve they're looking
at specific pieces of data and they're
saying it's still too strong we gotta
Elevate we gotta push our interest rates
up that presents itself with an issue to
the ongoing tightening which has been a
concern for investors and uh even in
individuals because of their cost of
borrowing
all right and then we go this uh this
last part here as the big Banks earn
more from lending the question has not
when will the positors see the reward
well it's finally starting the reason I
mentioned is that people are trying to
keep money in their bank and earn
something this is not the way to do it
if you want to keep it there because you
believe it's safe that's a different
story but trying to earn from a bank not
a good way the stock market you put it
in there not to make money you're not
you're not going to get rich very few
people over over many decades get rich
from the stock market that is a place to
park money over a long period of time
and you know utilize that to you know
basically keep up with inflation and
hopefully more that's the stock market
real estate it's about four different
ways I've got a video about that in my
playlist Financial education playlist
and of course business is the one where
you multiply your money so these are the
things you know you got precious metals
different types of Commodities that hold
value over long periods of time each
asset class has its own benefits but
please
well gotta know don't try to actually
make
uh you know income from a savings
account or checking account that's not
how it works that that wasn't its
intention
this I just want to show you if you want
details if you want information if you
want to actually put in a request the
Discord is where you got to do that
because that's the way I'm going to be
able to reach you you're going to be
able to reach me and I'll give you the
details I've got so much if you look on
the left bar you're going to see so many
different things that will be of use to
you you read through them enjoy them you
got a request let me know that link is
in the description hit that Discord if
you don't know what it is just check it
out you just sign up it's totally free
check it out I'll see you there